Reporting API - tidy up CSPViolationReportBody (#35602)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/cspviolationreportbody/blockedurl/index.md

---
title: "CSPViolationReportBody: blockedURL property"
short-title: blockedURL
slug: Web/API/CSPViolationReportBody/blockedURL
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.CSPViolationReportBody.blockedURL
---

{{APIRef("Reporting API")}}

The **`blockedURL`** read-only property of the {{domxref("CSPViolationReportBody")}} interface is a string value or URL that represents the resource that was blocked because it violates a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP).

## Value

An string containing a value or URL that represents the resource that violated the policy.

If the value is not an URL of a resource, it must be one of the following strings:

- `inline`

>   - : An unsafe inline resource.

Author: Agree.
```suggestion
  - : An inline resource.
```

    For example, an inline script that was used when [`'unsafe-inline'`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy#unsafe-inline) was not specified in the CSP.
- `eval`

>   - : An unsafe `eval()`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : An `eval()`.
```

    For example, `eval` was used but [`'unsafe-eval'`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy#unsafe-eval) was not specified in the CSP.
- `wasm-eval`

>   - : An unsafe WASM evaluation.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : An WASM evaluation.
```

    For example, `eval` was used but [`'wasm-unsafe-eval'`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy#wasm-unsafe-eval) was not specified in the CSP.
- `trusted-types-policy`
  - : A resource that violated the [`trusted-types`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/trusted-types) CSP directive.

>     For example, a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} was created using {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicyFactory/createPolicy", "window.trustedTypes.createPolicy()")}} with a name that wasn't listed in the `trusted-types` directive, or the new policy did not provide adequate sanitization.

Author: Yes, the "does not provide adequate sanitization" came from an early explainer. It appears not to be true. From the docs, spec and https://web.dev/articles/trusted-types it appears that all we check is 
- whether the names of defined trustedtype policies that are used are those that the server allows. 
- That one of these policies is used in the sink.

We don't check that the policy itself is "good" - the object is to create just one place for your sanitisation code that is easy to check. 

```suggestion
    For example, a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} was created using {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicyFactory/createPolicy", "window.trustedTypes.createPolicy()")}} with a name that wasn't listed in the CSP `trusted-types` directive.
```

Note, I'm not sure how checking the name is allowed is useful. I guess this means that if a hacker can somehow rewrite the page using javascript they can still only do it using the named `TrustedTypes`? Anyway.

>     For example, a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} was created using {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicyFactory/createPolicy", "window.trustedTypes.createPolicy()")}} with a name that wasn't listed in the `trusted-types` directive, or the new policy did not provide adequate sanitization.

Reviewer: > I'm not sure how checking the name is allowed is useful.

Yeah nor am I :). But I haven't really tried to understand trusted types yet.

>     For example, a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} was created using {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicyFactory/createPolicy", "window.trustedTypes.createPolicy()")}} with a name that wasn't listed in the `trusted-types` directive, or the new policy did not provide adequate sanitization.

Author: I _suspect_ it is a "helper" mechanism from the server admin for developers working on the site code.
As a server owner you state that you want your sanitiser policy to be named X and that it must be used for any sinks.

Then if your developer tries to call it something else or forgets to use it in a sink the code fails, and you get a report.

This is inline with the stated goals, which is to make sure that consistent sanitisation is used - whoever is inspecting code now just has to check that the sanitiser X has a decent implementation, rather than every single case.

The HTML below demonstrates the conditions that would result in a `blockedURL` of `trusted-types-sink`.
First it defines a policy that allows `'unsafe-inline'` scripts to be executed, and as in the previous example it use the `trusted-types` directive to specify that a {{domxref("TrustedTypePolicy")}} with the name `myPolicy` is allowed to be created.

In addition, it specifies the directive `require-trusted-types-for 'script'`, which enforces that sinks should only be passed content that has been sanitized using a trusted type.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta
      http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy"
      content="default-src 'self' 'report-sample' 'unsafe-inline'; trusted-types 'myPolicy'; require-trusted-types-for 'script'" />
    <script src="main.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <input type="text" id="userInput" />
    <button onclick="updateContent()">Update Content</button>
    <div id="content"></div>
  </body>

  <script>
    const policy = trustedTypes.createPolicy("somePolicy", {
      createHTML: (string) => {
        // Incorrect sanitization logic
        return DOMPurify.sanitize(string);
      },

>     });

Reviewer: I don't think you need this for the example do you?

Author: Nope - I wasn't certain but testing shows it is not needed. I have removed this, and added all the "how to do a good job" as a follow on block.

FYI also I removed `DOMPurify` - that's a library you might use but it is not imported here and irrelevant.

    function updateContent() {
      const userInput = document.getElementById("userInput").value;

      // Passing unsanitized content - a violation of the policy
      document.getElementById("content").innerHTML = userInput;

      //Correct use of the policy
      //const sanitizedInput = policy.createHTML(userInput);

>       //document.getElementById("content").innerHTML = sanitizedInput;

Reviewer: ...unless it's for this, but then comment the policy creation out as well?

Author: Removed/fixed
